(in progress)
# Convolutional neural network from scratch
Almost all of us have heard of the wonders caused by a Convolutional neural network architecture. From winning Imagenet challenges to generating natural language descriptions to even hallucinating images, CNN modules have become a necessity in almost all challenging computer vision problem.
Moreover, with deep learning revolutionizing the fields of computer vision, NLP, reinforcement learning, many deep learning frameworks have been released which make the life of a deep learning enthusiast much easier by providing sort of an API for implementing deep learning models. Some of the popular deep learning frameworks include <a href="http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/">Theano</a>, <a href="https://www.tensorflow.org">Tensorflow</a>, <a href="http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/">Caffe</a>.
However, I do believe that getting an intuition behind a system's working is a lot more satisfactory than letting it behave as a black box. How and why does a CNN produces such quality results, how does the input data flow between the layers in a CNN, how do the firing up of neurons in a particular layer depend on some of the neurons in the previous layers are some of the questions that came to my mind when I first started learning about CNNs.
So in this post I have attempted to implement a Convolutional neural network from scratch, without involving any deep learning framework.
# Warning
The strength of CNN architecture implemented in this post is in no way comparable to those implemented using Tensorflow, Keras etc. There are certain optimization considerations which are obviously less taken care in this implementation. Also, with regard to the training time of this model, it will be very high, may go upto weeks depending on what number of layers you want to the network. 
